IBX-11536: MCP Servers (#3106)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/infrastructure_and_maintenance/security/development_security.md

            enabled: false
```

> You also need to configure Symfony firewalls for the APIs with which you want to use JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to configure Symfony firewalls for the APIs with which you want to use JWT authentication.
```

            stateless: true
            jwt: ~

        ibexa_jwt_mcp:
            request_matcher: Ibexa\Mcp\Security\McpRequestMatcher
            user_checker: Ibexa\Core\MVC\Symfony\Security\UserChecker
            provider: ibexa
            stateless: true
            jwt: ~

        ibexa_jwt_graphql:
            request_matcher: Ibexa\GraphQL\Security\NonAdminGraphQLRequestMatcher
            provider: ibexa
            stateless: true
            jwt: ~
```

- `ibexa_jwt_rest` is the firewall allowing to generate a JWT token through REST or GraphQL

> - `ibexa_jwt_rest.api` is the firewall to [use JWT for REST API](rest_api_authentication.md#jwt-authentication) instead of session-based authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ibexa_jwt_rest.api` is the firewall to [use JWT authentication for REST API](rest_api_authentication.md#jwt-authentication) instead of session-based
```

> - `ibexa_jwt_mcp` is the firewall to [use JWT for MCP servers](mcp_config.md#jwt)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ibexa_jwt_mcp` is the firewall to [use JWT authentication for MCP servers](mcp_config.md#jwt)
```

> - `ibexa_jwt_graphql` is the firewall to [use JWT for GraphQL API](graphql.md#jwt-authentication)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ibexa_jwt_graphql` is the firewall to [use JWT authentication for GraphQL API](graphql.md#jwt-authentication)
```

> For example, if you want to use JWT only for MCP servers and session-based authentication for REST and GraphQL, you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to use JWT authentication only for MCP servers and keep session-based authentication for REST and GraphQL:
```

- uncomment `ibexa_jwt_rest` and `ibexa_jwt_mcp` to activate them
- keep `ibexa_jwt_rest.api` and `ibexa_jwt_graphql` commented and disabled

> ### Keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generate JWT tokens with PEM keys
```
or
```suggestion
### Use PEM keys
```

I'm not sure, but I'm sure that just "Keys" is not enough

Out of the box, JWT tokens are created using Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC) with `APP_SECRET` as the secret key and the HMAC-SHA256 (`HS256`) algorithm.

You can use Privacy-enhanced Electronic Mail (PEM) keys and the RSA-SHA256 (`RS256`) algorithm instead.

> In a `.env` file, you should have the following variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Set `JWT_PASSPHRASE` secret

In a `.env` file, you should have the following variables:
```

To make it sounds more like a procedure - and to be able to tell where exactly one step begins and the other ends.

```dotenv
JWT_SECRET_KEY=%kernel.project_dir%/config/jwt/private.pem
JWT_PUBLIC_KEY=%kernel.project_dir%/config/jwt/public.pem
JWT_PASSPHRASE=0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ……
```

Set your `JWT_PASSPHRASE`, its value needs to be a strong, random, and securely stored value.
For more recommendations and how to generate one, see [`APP_SECRET` and other secret](security_checklist.md#app_secret-and-other-secrets).

> In `config/packages/lexik_jwt_authentication.yaml`, use the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In `config/packages/lexik_jwt_authentication.yaml`, use the following configuration:
```

``` yaml hl_lines="2-4 6"
lexik_jwt_authentication:
    secret_key: '%env(resolve:JWT_SECRET_KEY)%'
    public_key: '%env(resolve:JWT_PUBLIC_KEY)%'
    pass_phrase: '%env(JWT_PASSPHRASE)%'
    encoder:
        signature_algorithm: RS256
    # …
```

> Generate a [PEM encoded key pair](https://symfony.com/bundles/LexikJWTAuthenticationBundle/2.x/index.html#generate-the-ssl-keys) in `config/jwt` directory by using the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Generate a [PEM encoded key pair](https://symfony.com/bundles/LexikJWTAuthenticationBundle/2.x/index.html#generate-the-ssl-keys) in `config/jwt` directory by using the command:
```

            stateless: true
            jwt: ~

        ibexa_jwt_mcp:
            request_matcher: Ibexa\Mcp\Security\McpRequestMatcher
            user_checker: Ibexa\Core\MVC\Symfony\Security\UserChecker
            provider: ibexa
            stateless: true
            jwt: ~

        ibexa_jwt_graphql:
            request_matcher: Ibexa\GraphQL\Security\NonAdminGraphQLRequestMatcher
            provider: ibexa
            stateless: true
            jwt: ~
```

> - `ibexa_jwt_rest` is the firewall allowing to generate a JWT token through REST or GraphQL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ibexa_jwt_rest` is the firewall that allows to generate a JWT token through REST or GraphQL
```

- `ibexa_jwt_rest.api` is the firewall to [use JWT authentication for REST API](rest_api_authentication.md#jwt-authentication) instead of session-based
- `ibexa_jwt_mcp` is the firewall to [use JWT authentication for MCP servers](mcp_config.md#jwt-mcp-firewall)
- `ibexa_jwt_graphql` is the firewall to [use JWT authentication for GraphQL API](graphql.md#jwt-authentication)

> For example, to use JWT authentication only for MCP servers and keep session-based authentication for REST and GraphQL:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to use JWT authentication only for MCP servers and keep session-based authentication for REST and GraphQL APIs:
```

- uncomment `ibexa_jwt_rest` and `ibexa_jwt_mcp` to activate them
- keep `ibexa_jwt_rest.api` and `ibexa_jwt_graphql` commented and disabled

### Use PEM keys

> Out of the box, JWT tokens are created using Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC) with `APP_SECRET` as the secret key and the HMAC-SHA256 (`HS256`) algorithm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Out of the box, JWT tokens are created by using HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) with `APP_SECRET` as the secret key and the `HS256` (HMAC-SHA256) algorithm.
```

> You can use Privacy-enhanced Electronic Mail (PEM) keys and the RSA-SHA256 (`RS256`) algorithm instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use PEM (Privacy-enhanced Electronic Mail) keys and the `RS256` (RSA-SHA256) algorithm instead.
```

1. Set `JWT_PASSPHRASE` secret

> In a `.env` file, you should have the following variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set the `JWT_PASSPHRASE` secret

In an `.env` file, you should have the following variables:
```

```dotenv
JWT_SECRET_KEY=%kernel.project_dir%/config/jwt/private.pem
JWT_PUBLIC_KEY=%kernel.project_dir%/config/jwt/public.pem
JWT_PASSPHRASE=0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ……
```

Set your `JWT_PASSPHRASE`, its value needs to be a strong, random, and securely stored value.

> For more recommendations and how to generate one, see [`APP_SECRET` and other secret](security_checklist.md#app_secret-and-other-secrets).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set your `JWT_PASSPHRASE`, its value must strong, random, and securely stored.
For more recommendations and to learn how to generate one, see [`APP_SECRET` and other secrets](security_checklist.md#app_secret-and-other-secrets).
```

Author: ```suggestion
Set your `JWT_PASSPHRASE`, its value must be strong, random, and securely stored.
For more recommendations and to learn how to generate one, see [`APP_SECRET` and other secrets](security_checklist.md#app_secret-and-other-secrets).
```

2. In `config/packages/lexik_jwt_authentication.yaml`, use the following configuration:

``` yaml hl_lines="2-4 6"
lexik_jwt_authentication:
    secret_key: '%env(resolve:JWT_SECRET_KEY)%'
    public_key: '%env(resolve:JWT_PUBLIC_KEY)%'
    pass_phrase: '%env(JWT_PASSPHRASE)%'
    encoder:
        signature_algorithm: RS256
    # …
```

> 3. Generate a [PEM encoded key pair](https://symfony.com/bundles/LexikJWTAuthenticationBundle/2.x/index.html#generate-the-ssl-keys) in `config/jwt` directory by using the command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In `config/jwt` directory, generate a [PEM encoded key pair](https://symfony.com/bundles/LexikJWTAuthenticationBundle/2.x/index.html#generate-the-ssl-keys) by using the following command:
```

Author: You must **not** go into this directory to generate keys in it. The command does it.
```suggestion
3. Generate a [PEM encoded key pair](https://symfony.com/bundles/LexikJWTAuthenticationBundle/2.x/index.html#generate-the-ssl-keys) by using the following command which outputs key files in the `config/jwt` directory:
```
